---
layout: post
title: Styx 2.5-beta1 release on the road
---

Styx 2018/1 2.5-beta1 release is ready for attention! Check the [ChangeLog](https://github.com/ophian/styx/blob/2.5-beta1/docs/NEWS) for details!
Styx should now be **PHP 7.2.x** ready!

## Styx 2.5-beta1 runs (...some highlights)

  - Set minimum required PHP version to 5.5+
  - Various CHANGES for encryption and hash generation were sorted out. In example, PHP 7.1.3+ now uses a GCM encryption, which forces to create a NEW login cookie, if in use.
  - Multi CLEANUP for old bundled PEAR-libs and compatibility modes vs. UPDATE some external libs (random_compat, simplePie, Smarty, etc.).
  - Various internal BUG FIXES (noted in the ChangeLog), alongside improvements like for the PLAIN TEXT Editor.
  - Set DEFAULT Standard Backend 'template_backend' to Styx (2styx).
  - Add NEW bootstrap 4 theme.
  - Multi CHANGES and FIXES for the Backend comments list, likewise the NEW moderate on/off buttons, or the NEW pending comment "hideaway".
  - Regarding the European **G**eneral **D**ata **P**rotection **R**egulation Act, taking action in mid of may, all plugins and themes were changed to collect "legal impact" information data for the NEWly added serendipity_event_dsgvo_gdpr plugin.
  - SOME themes webfont use was made optional (clean-blog, skeleton, timeline).
  - More themes CHANGES were made for consistency (serendipity message selectors) and IMPROVEMENTS for post comment author owners (2k11, next).
  - The NL2BR plugin found a bad interpretation of the ISOlation tag option and improved the NL2P (_experimental_) option. Please review your settings on upgrade!
  - Again some improving CHANGES in the LANG constants.
  - Last, but not least, a NEW option arrived, to run HTML comments. This option allows having coding example parts in comments and comments generally displayed more nicely.
  - And some more...

See [download](https://github.com/ophian/styx/releases/tag/2.5-beta1)